---
layout: post
title: The Awesome Booklisp
date: 2021-04-28 07:00
category: development
author: Jason
tags: ['community', 'open source']
summary: 
---

## TL; Dr

-------


## What is Booklisp?

There are 4 types of open source (OO) software. The first is where the creator(s) see a general need and then go about providing a solution for that need. The second type of OO software, is where someone has a, potentially novel, idea and they go about creating it. The third type of OO software is where someone sets out to learn something and does that learning in a space where we all can see the result. The last type of OO software is where the creator(s) have a problem and they go out to solve their own problem, and there by create something that is useful to some subset of others.

It is the last type of open source software I want to talk about today. [Booklisp](https://www.npmjs.com/package/booklisp) is a tool that solves a specific problem. It makes it easy to build and maintain complex documentation. It does this by allowing the author(s) to separate the document into multiple markdown pieces, and then "compiling" them into a single markdown document with a table of contents.

## Why Should I Care?

Booklisp, improves upon the `Readme.md` file that is used to document so many open source projects. By breaking the document up into sections or chapters, you can now separate concerns in the documentation. Not only is each chapter smaller and thereby more navigable, but also it means that only the parts of the document change that represent what features change. This is a nice feature of Booklisp. It means, that without checking content, you can see with each release what parts of the software were changed by looking at which chapters changed.

