---
layout: post
title: The Workshop I helped Create
date: 2021-04-21 19:39
category: agility
author: Jason
tags: ['team', 'well-being', 'work-shop', 'open source']
summary: 
---

## TL; DR

---------------------------

## Intro

There comes a time when you get to work on something that _**really**_ makes you proud. [Zach Bonaker](https://agileoutloud.wordpress.com/2016/02/16/real-values-in-hiring/) and I made something about two years ago that makes me proud. It is a workshop that examines how the surrounding environment drastically effect's a team performance.

## Why we made it

Zach and I were working in the same company as Agile Coaches. We were approached by a manager who wanted help re-teaming her teams. She was looking for help building team agreements and starting discussions of safety. Zach and I knew that in order for safety to exist within a team, the team needs to acknowledge the external factors that are effecting the them. There is no magic "agile" that can be sprinkled over a team to help them perform better.

## How we came up with the idea

We spent spent all our free time for a week brainstorming ideas. The problem was nothing felt right. Everything was either boring or not relevant. We were both tired of simulations that did not closely match the way people work in software. All too many simulations play a game that simplifies the environment to a point, that is easy to dismiss. We wanted something different. We wanted something that was both fun, and resembled real work.

Then one day walking back to our desks from some other meeting we started talking about the problem of simulations. Working with real code, was too slow to make our point and every game we ever saw did not mimic work closely enough. We were on the verge of giving up and just doing some generic workshop that you can attend at any conference. It was during this discussion that we hit on the point of game creation.

## Why Game Creation

Board and Card game creation share a lot with software development. Each are endeavours of creative problem solving that the end product must be usable by some person. They both have specific goals they are trying to achieve, and rules the creators must follow. Lastly both can be tested.

This was a perfect combination.

## Not all People in Programming Enjoy Games

