---
layout: post
title: Ugly
date: 2023-05-12 09:41
category: 
author: Jason
tags: []
summary: 
---

## The Ugly Truth ##

There are so many things to love about the world, but today I want to talk about things that make the world ugly and our presence in a world were ugly things happen. According to the [US Equal Opportunity Commission](https://www.eeoc.gov/data/sexual-harassment-our-nations-workplaces), between the fiscal years of 2018 and 2022 there were 98,411 harassment charges filed. 27,291 of those were sexual harassment charges. You combine this with a report from [Gartner](https://www.gartner.com/en/newsroom/press-releases/2019-03-12-gartner-says-just-41-percent-of-workplace-misconduct-is-reported) that says that only 41% of all workplace misconduct is reported; and you have a problem.

I am not qualified to talk about the legal, or HR implications of these studies. If you are experiencing, or know someone experiencing this, please seek [help](https://civilrights.justice.gov/).

If you take the numbers above there is an estimated 66K sexual misconduct cases at work in the US, and more then 38K are not reported. These assaults have a huge impact on our lives, our businesses, and our view of ourselves.

What I want to talk about is what is the ethical responsibility of the people not directly involved. Just to be clear, if you are the accused, a victim, a witness, an HR representative, or anyone with authority over those involved then this article is not for you. This is for the people who know those involved. This is for the people who feel helpless about what to do with the knowledge of what has happened.

## Recognizing with Secondary Trauma ##

First thing to realize is you are a victim also. A secondary victim, yes, but still a victim. I have known two women who have experienced sexual harassment in the workplace. Hearing their stories filled me with dread. I did not feel like I had a right to feel awful. After all, it wasn't me that these things happened to. Looking back on both of those instances I too went through the stages of grief. These shook my world, I knew it could happen, but there is a difference between knowing a statistic and experiencing someone else's pain.

I don't want anyone to think that I am minimizing what those women went through. Not at all. Instead, I am recognizing that before we can help we need to acknowledge the trauma we go through when others share their trauma with us. In fact, I believe if we do not address this trauma inside ourselves we risk inflicting more trauma on those who's trauma we have become privy.

I felt helpless when I heard each woman's tail. In both cases it was well after the fact, but that did not stop me from being angry.

## The Need to Deal with Secondary Trauma ##

I learned a lot about what not to do from the first time someone shared with me the details related to their sexual harassment. It was months after the instance happened, and they were fired because of it. The company was careful to not record the complaint and fired her technically for different reasons; although in a private verbal meeting she was told the real reason she was being fired. Which was everyone was scared of the person who she tried to file a complaint about.

Immediately I started inflicting help upon the person. I gave her hotline numbers, that other people had also given her. I advocated that she find a lawyer and try to sue. Again advice other had hoisted upon her with no care about if she wanted it. She told me with no uncertain terms to drop it, that she never wanted to think about it again, and she believed she could not win without living in pain that was too much to bare. She never spoke to me again.

I was, in retrospect, reacting out of my trauma caused by the information. Had I taken time to process what I was going through, I could have better processed what she was going through. I cannot even wrap my mind around what it does to a person to be so completely valued on how much physical pleasure they can give someone else, and then discarded when they refuse to bring that pleasure.

By not listening to her, and making her feelings first and foremost, I made her situation worse. I made my trauma hers to carry along with her own. I became a burden, under the guise of helping.

## The Helping Trap ##

Helping is a slippery slope. You see when you help, or even offer to help, you are saying you are in a place of power over the person you are trying to help. This power comes from the fact that you can help when they cannot. When we are talking about victims of sexual misconduct, an action that takes the power away from a person is not actually helping. It is making them relive the experiences in a smaller form. In essence we are doing the same thing to them; we are taking away their power over themselves.

What is worse, is it feels good to help. We are taking power and doing something good. Or at least that is how it feels. This need to take power could be attributed to the loss of power we felt when we became aware of what happened to the victim. We empathized and felt that loss of power and control. But by offering help when it was not asked for, we are taking that power from the person who needs it most.

## Learning From the Past ##

The things I did to "help" the first time I was made aware of a victim's experiences were not necessarily wrong. They were given from the wrong state of mind, and definitely given at the wrong time. This is what makes this hard. That "man" (monster) was left in a place to victimize more people as far as I know. However, I did nothing to help the situation. Instead, I alienated someone who needed a friend.

The second time I encountered someone who had been victimized at work, the situation was different. It had been many months after HR had handled the situation, but that would not have changed my response much. I had learned from the first time. Instead of trying to fix the situation, I sat and listened. I admitted to the lady that I was angry on her behalf but would not do anything to react. I only told her this because she asked. This time, I asked questions. Not to interrogate her, but to check in and see how she was doing. I expressed care, concern, and a desire to see her empowered.

Over the next couple of days, I dealt with the emotions I felt by leaning in on those who I knew would support me. I made sure my friend knew I was there to hear them out on what ever they wanted to talk about.

## True Help ##

?

## Questions ##

Do I advise the reader to seek help for their friend if they have not sought it? Or do I advise them to listen?
