---
layout: post
title: Abuse
date: 2023-05-11 14:02
category: 
author: 
tags: []
summary: 
---

## Overview

??

## A Plea

If you are a vitum, and anything I say hear rings wrong, please let me know. I will fix it right away.

## Introduction

There are people that for some reason or another currently believe they are better then others or at least someone. Those people will objectify others, and hurt them. Sometimes these people are people that hold power. Sometimes they are people craving power and some form of control in thier lives. Either way the damage they do is real.

I do not want to how to put your life back together when one of those people tear it apart. I feel I am not the right person for that discussion as I have never had to live that, and there are whole organizations dedicated to that cause that would do it better justice then I.

I want to talk about how to be an ally and a friend to someone that has lived through that. I am not an expert on this either, but I have lived it. I have lived it more times then I want to admit, and I honestly pray that there will never be a need for me to again. I know that prayer is pointless. But I still pray.

## There is no fixing

The first thing I want to say, is that as an ally, you cannot fix the problem. You cannot force the victum to fix the problem. There is no fixing the damage done, and in a lot of casese there is no fixing what caused the damage. Your job is not to fix, but to listen, to care, so empathize and show compassion. You need to be an ever empty vessel that the victum can pour thier experiences into and never get anything but compassion out of.

### The problem with fixing

It is almost instinctial, we hear of this abuse, we see the pain, and we want to fix it. If it was fixed then the person would feel better. That is not nessessarily the case.

When we attempt to fix the problem we are trying to take ownership away from a person who is struggling with a since of loss of control. We revisit the abuse upon the person by again taking away thier control.